[Congressional Record Volume 172, Number 36 (Tuesday, February 24, 2026)]
[Senate]
[Pages S645-S649]
From the Congressional Record Online through the Government Publishing Office [www.gpo.gov]




                          PRESIDENTIAL MESSAGE

                                 ______
                                 

   REPORT ON THE STATE OF THE UNION DELIVERED TO A JOINT SESSION OF 
                  CONGRESS ON FEBRUARY 24, 2026--PM 52

  The PRESIDING OFFICER laid before the Senate the following message 
from the President of the United States which was ordered to lie on the 
table:

To the Congress of the United States:
  Speaker Johnson, Vice President Vance, First Lady of the United 
States, Second Lady of the United States, members of Congress, and my 
fellow Americans:
  Our Nation is back--bigger, better, richer, and stronger than ever 
before.
  Less than 5 months from now, our country will celebrate an epic 
milestone in American History--the 250th Anniversary of our glorious 
American Independence. This July 4th, we will mark two and a half 
centuries of liberty and triumph, progress and freedom in the most 
incredible and exceptional nation ever to exist on the face of this 
earth--and you've seen nothing yet, because we are entering the Golden 
Age of America.
  When I last spoke in this chamber 12 months ago, I had just inherited 
a nation in crisis--with a stagnant economy, inflation at record 
levels, a wide-open border, horrendous recruitment for military and 
police, rampant crime at home, and wars and chaos all over the world. 
But tonight, after just one year, I can say with dignity and pride that 
we have achieved a transformation like no one has ever seen before, and 
a turnaround for the ages. We will never go back to where we were just 
a short time ago!
  Today, our border is secure, our spirit is restored, inflation is 
plummeting, incomes are rising fast, the economy is roaring, our 
enemies are scared, our military and police are stacked, and America is 
respected again, perhaps like never before.
  After 4 years in which millions and millions of illegal aliens poured 
across our borders totally unvetted and unchecked, we now have the 
strongest and most secure border in American history. In the past 9 
months, zero illegal aliens have been admitted to the United States--
but we will always allow people to come in legally, people that will 
love our country and will work hard to maintain it. The flow of deadly 
fentanyl across our border is down by a record 56%. And last year, the 
murder rate saw its single largest decline in recorded history--the 
lowest number in over 125 years, in fact, substantially before my 
father Fred was born.
  The Biden administration and its allies in Congress gave us the worst 
inflation in the history of our country. But in 12 months, my 
administration has driven core inflation down to the lowest level in 
more than 5 years--and in the last 3 months of 2025, it was down to 
1.7%.
  Gasoline, which reached a peak of over $6 a gallon in some states 
under my predecessor, is now below $2.30 a gallon in many states, in 
some places $1.99--and when I visited Iowa a few weeks ago, I even saw 
$1.85 a gallon. Mortgage rates are the lowest in 4 years and falling 
fast--and the annual cost of the typical new mortgage is down almost 
$5,000 just since I took office.
  Low interest rates will solve the Biden-created housing problem--
while at the same time protecting the values of those people, who 
already own a house, that are now rich for the first time in their 
lives. And I'm going to keep it that way.
  The stock market has set 53 all-time record highs since the 
election--boosting pensions, 401ks, and retirement accounts for 
millions and millions of Americans.
  In 4 long years, the last administration got less than $1 trillion of 
new investment in the United States. In 12 months, I secured 
commitments for more than $18 trillion pouring in from all over the 
globe. Think of it, less than $1 trillion for 4 years, versus $18 
trillion for one year. A short time ago, we were a dead country--now, 
we are the hottest country anywhere in the world.
  As thousands of new businesses are forming, and factories, plants, 
and laboratories are being built, we have added 70,000 new construction 
jobs in just a short period. American Oil production is up by more than 
600,000 barrels a day--and we just received, from our new friend and 
partner, Venezuela, more than 80 million barrels of oil. American 
natural gas production is at an all-time high, because I kept my 
promise to drill, baby, drill. More Americans are working today than at 
any time in the history of our country. And 100% of all jobs created 
under my administration have been in the private sector. We ended 
D.E.I. in America. We cut a record number of job-killing regulations--
and in one year, we have lifted 2.4 million Americans off food stamps.
  For all these reasons, I say tonight--Members of Congress, The State 
of Our Union is strong.
  Our country is winning again--in fact, we're winning so much, that we 
don't know what to do about it. People are asking me, ``Please, please, 
please, Mr. President, we're winning too much, we can't take it 
anymore. We're not used to winning in our country--until you came 
along, we were always losing.'' And I say, ``No, no, you're going to 
win again, and you're going to win big--there's no such thing as too 
much winning.'' And to prove that point, here with us tonight is a 
group of winners who just made our entire nation incredibly proud--the 
Men's Gold Medal Olympic Hockey Team. Come on in! They beat a fantastic 
Canadian team in overtime--as did the American women, who will soon be 
coming to the White House. Congratulations, Team USA! I have never seen 
a goal tender play as well as goalie Connor Hellebuyck. And I think the 
members of this great hockey squad will be happy to hear--and I'll only 
do this if they agree by a vote count--that I will soon be presenting 
him our highest civilian honor, which we have given to many athletes 
over the years, the Presidential Medal of Freedom. Thank you all!
  I am also pleased to say that the next time the Olympic torch is lit, 
it will be here in America for the 2028 Olympics in Los Angeles. And 
this year, we are hosting the 2026 FIFA World Cup.
  But the biggest of all is America 250. This will be a year to 
celebrate our

[[Page S646]]

country, and the heroes who have kept it free--men like Buddy Taggart. 
At age 17, Buddy volunteered to defend America in World War Two. 
Serving in the Pacific under the great General Douglas MacArthur, he 
fought bravely in the famous Battle of Manila, he was wounded and 
almost killed by enemy machine guns at Luzon, and 81 years ago this 
month, he liberated the largest internment camp in the Philippines. 
Buddy earned many honors, including a Purple Heart and a Bronze Star, 
came home, started a family, and tonight, he is in the gallery looking 
forward to July 4th, 2026--his 100th birthday. Buddy, we salute you. 
Please stand.
  Even in times of challenge, setback, and immense heartache, the 
Spirit of 1776 has always shone through. It was July 4th of last year 
when floodwaters tore through a girls' summer camp in Central Texas, 
rising 26 feet in mere minutes, tragically claiming many lives. As the 
waters threatened to sweep her away, 11-year-old Milly Cate McClymond 
closed her eyes, and prayed to God. Those prayers were answered when 
Coast Guard rescue swimmer Scott Ruskan descended from a helicopter. It 
was Scott's first-ever rescue mission--and he lifted not just Milly 
Cate, but 164 others to safety. Tonight, Scott and Milly Cate are here 
together, reunited for the first time. And Petty Officer Ruskan, I'm 
pleased to inform you that I am now awarding you the Legion of Merit 
for Extraordinary Heroism.
  From 1776 to today, every generation of Americans has stepped forward 
to defend life, liberty, and the pursuit of happiness for the next. 
Now, it is our turn. Together, we are building a nation where every 
child has the chance to reach higher and go farther--where government 
answers to the people, not the powerful--and where the interests of 
hardworking American Citizens are always our first and ultimate 
concern. That is the debt we owe to the heroes who came before us--and 
that is the promise we must keep to America for our 250th Year.
  Last year, I urged this Congress to begin that mission by passing the 
largest tax cuts in American history, and our Republican Majorities 
delivered. All Democrats--every single one of them--voted against these 
massive tax cuts. They wanted tax increases. But we held strong--and 
with the great Big Beautiful Bill, we gave you no tax on tips, no tax 
on overtime, and no tax on social security for our great seniors. We 
also made interest on auto loans tax deductible--but only if the car is 
made in America.
  Recently in Pennsylvania, I met Megan Hemhauser, a devoted mom who 
homeschools her two children during the day, while waiting tables at 
night--as her husband works overtime operating heavy equipment. Megan 
is here this evening, and she's very happy--because with No Tax on 
Tips, No Tax on Overtime, and our expanded child tax credit, Megan and 
her husband will take home more than $5,000 extra, cutting her tax bill 
in half. Megan--we are fighting for families just like yours. Thank 
you.
  Under our bill, parents like Megan can also activate their children's 
brand-new Trump Accounts--tax-free investment accounts for every 
American child. Millions will be pre-funded courtesy of the U.S. 
Treasury and private individuals like Michael and Susan Dell, who have 
donated $6 billion, $250 million to fund Trump Accounts for 25 million 
American children, as well as others like Brad Gerstner who is donating 
to children in Indiana. With modest additional contributions, accounts 
could grow to $100,000 or more by the time children turn 18. To make 
this investment in our children's future, go to TrumpAccounts.gov.
  One of the primary reasons for our country's stunning economic 
turnaround, the biggest in history, where the Dow Jones broke 50,000 
four years ahead of schedule, and the S&P hit 7,000 where it wasn't 
supposed to for years, were tariffs. I used these tariffs to make great 
deals for our country, both economically and on a national security 
basis. Everything was working well, countries that were ripping us off 
for decades are now paying us hundreds of billions of dollars a year--
and yet, these countries were happy, and so were we. There was no 
inflation, tremendous growth, and the big story was how Donald Trump 
called the economy correctly, and 22 Nobel Prize winners in economics 
didn't, they got it completely wrong. And then, just 4 days ago, an 
unfortunate ruling from the United States Supreme Court came down. But 
the good news is that almost all countries and corporations want to 
keep the deal that they already made, knowing that the legal power that 
I, as President, have to make a new deal could be far worse for them, 
and therefore they will continue to work along the same successful path 
we had negotiated before the Supreme Court's involvement. So, despite 
the disappointing ruling, these powerful, country-saving, peace-
protecting tariffs will remain in place under fully approved and tested 
alternative legal statutes, leading to a solution that will be even 
stronger than before. Congressional action will not be necessary. And 
as time goes by, I believe that tariffs, paid for by foreign countries, 
will, like in the past, substantially replace the modern-day system of 
income tax, taking a great financial burden off the people that I love. 
I would like to acknowledge Supreme Court Justices Clarence Thomas, 
Samuel Alito, and Brett Kavanaugh for having the courage and conviction 
to do what they knew was right. Moving forward, factories, jobs, 
investment, and trillions of dollars will continue pouring into the 
United States of America--because we finally have a president who puts 
America First.

  For decades before I came along, we had the exact opposite. From 
trade to healthcare, from Energy to immigration, everything was stolen 
and rigged in order to drain the wealth out of the productive, 
hardworking people who make our country run. Under Biden and his 
corrupt partners in Congress and beyond, it reached a breaking point--
with the Green New Scam, Open Borders, and record-setting inflation 
that cost the typical family $34,000 dollars in just a speck of time.
  Now, the same people in this chamber who voted for those disasters 
suddenly use the word affordability--knowing full well that they caused 
the increased prices, not us. They knew their statements were a lie. 
Their policies created the high prices--our policies are rapidly ending 
them. The price of eggs is down 60%. The cost of chicken, butter, 
fruit, hotels, automobiles, and rent is lower today than when I took 
office, and even beef is starting to come down. And soon, you will see 
numbers that few would think were possible to achieve.
  I am also confronting one of the biggest rip-offs of our times, the 
crushing cost of healthcare. Since the passage of the Unaffordable Care 
Act, sometimes referred to as Obamacare, big insurance companies have 
gotten rich, with our government giving them hundreds of billions of 
dollars, as their stock prices soared 1,000, 1,200, 1,400, even 1,700 
percent. That's why I introduced The Great Healthcare Plan--I want to 
stop all payments to big insurance companies, and instead give that 
money directly to the people, so that they can buy their own 
healthcare, which will be better healthcare at a lower cost.
  In addition, my plan requires maximum price transparency. I did that 
in my first term, and the Democrats immediately terminated it with full 
knowledge that they were doing a very bad thing for the people.
  I am also ending the wildly inflated cost of prescription drugs. 
Other presidents tried to do it, but they never could. They were all 
talk and no action. I got it done. Under my just-enacted Most Favored 
Nation Agreements, Americans, who have for decades paid by far the 
highest prices of any nation for prescription drugs, will now pay the 
lowest price for drugs, anywhere in the world. So, in my first year, I 
took prescription drugs, a very big part of healthcare, from the 
highest price in the entire world to the lowest. The result is price 
differences of 300, 400, 500, 600 percent--all available right now at a 
new website, TrumpRX.gov. Here tonight is the very first customer ever 
to get the discount--Catherine Rayner. For 5 years, she and her husband 
have struggled with infertility, and they turned to I.V.F. One drug has 
been costing Catherine $4,000 dollars per purchase. But a few weeks 
ago, she logged onto the Trump RX website, and got that same drug for 
just $500 dollars--a reduction of $3,500 dollars.

[[Page S647]]

Catherine, we are all praying for you--you're going to be a great mom. 
Now, I am calling on Congress to codify my Most Favored Nation program 
into law.
  Many Americans are also concerned that energy demand from A.I. data 
centers could unfairly drive up their electric utility bills. Tonight, 
I am pleased to announce that I have negotiated the new ``Rate Payer 
Protection Pledge''. We are telling the major tech companies that they 
have the obligation to provide for their own power needs, so that no 
one's prices will go up, and in many cases, prices will go down for the 
community, substantially. This is a unique strategy never used in this 
country before--it will ensure the companies' ability to get 
electricity, while at the same time lowering prices for you.
  Another pillar of the American Dream that has been under attack is 
home ownership. With us tonight is Raysall Wiggins, a mom of two from 
Houston. She placed bids on 20 homes, and lost all those bids to 
gigantic investment firms that bypassed inspection, paid all cash, and 
turned those houses into rentals, stealing away her American dream. 
Stories like this are why last month, I signed an Executive Order to 
ban large Wall Street investment firms from buying up, in the 
thousands, single-family homes. And now I am asking Congress to make 
that ban permanent, because homes are for people, not corporations. 
Raysall, thank you.
  We are also working to make it easier for Americans to save for 
retirement--and under this administration, we will always protect 
Social Security and Medicare for our nation's seniors.
  Since I took office, the typical 401K balance is up almost $30,000 
dollars. Yet half of all working Americans still do not have access to 
a retirement plan with matching contributions from an employer. To 
remedy this gross disparity, I am announcing that next year, my 
administration will give these often-forgotten American workers access 
to the same type of retirement plan offered to every Federal worker--we 
will match your contributions with up to $1,000 dollars each year.
  As we ensure that all Americans can profit from a rising stock 
market, let's also ensure that members of Congress cannot corruptly 
profit using inside information. Pass the Stop Insider Trading Act 
without delay.
  But when it comes to the corruption that is plundering America, there 
has been no more stunning example than Minnesota--where members of the 
Somali community have pillaged an estimated $19 billion dollars from 
the American taxpayer. And in actuality, the number is much higher than 
that--and California, Massachusetts, Maine and many other states are 
even worse.
  This is the kind of corruption that shreds the fabric of a nation. So 
tonight, although started 4 months ago, I am officially announcing The 
War on Fraud, to be led by our Vice President, J.D. Vance. And if we 
are able to find enough of that fraud, we will have a balanced budget 
overnight.
  The Somali pirates who ransacked Minnesota remind us that there are 
large parts of the world where bribery, corruption, and lawlessness are 
the norm, not the exception. Importing these cultures through 
unrestricted immigration brings those problems right here, to the USA--
and it is the American People who pay the price, in higher medical 
bills, car insurance rates, rent, taxes, and perhaps most importantly, 
crime. We will take care of this problem.
  Dalilah Coleman was only 5 years old in June 2024, when an 18-wheel 
tractor trailer plowed into her stopped car traveling at 60 miles per 
hour. The driver was an illegal alien let in by Joe Biden and given a 
Commercial Driver's License by Open Borders politicians in California. 
Doctors said Dalilah would never be able to walk, talk, or eat on her 
own ever again. But against all odds, she is now in the first grade, 
learning to walk again, and she is here this evening with her dad 
Marcus. Dalilah--you are a great inspiration.
  Many, if not most, illegal aliens do not speak English and cannot 
read even the most basic road signs as to direction, speed, danger, or 
location. That is why tonight, I am calling on Congress to pass what we 
will call the ``Dalilah Law''--barring any state from granting 
Commercial Drivers Licenses to illegal aliens.
  Yesterday at the White House, I hosted a ceremony with Americans who 
lost their treasured loved ones to the scourge of illegal immigration. 
These are the Angel Moms and Families that for decades our government 
betrayed, and our media totally ignored.
  In 2023, a 16-year-old high school cheerleader named Lizbeth Medina 
was supposed to perform in her town's Christmas parade, but she never 
arrived. Her mother Jacqueline went home to look for her, and she found 
her--lying dead in the bathtub, after being stabbed 25 times. Lizbeth's 
killer was a previously-arrested illegal alien who had broken in, and 
brutally extinguished the brightest light in her family's life. Her 
heartbroken mother is in the gallery to remind everyone in this chamber 
exactly why we are deporting illegal alien criminals from our country--
we want them out of here. Jacqueline, please stand.
  We can never forget that many in this room not only allowed the 
border invasion to happen before I got involved--but indeed, they would 
do it all over again if ever given the chance. The only thing standing 
between Americans and a wide-open border right now is President Donald 
J. Trump and our great Republican patriots in Congress.
  As we speak, Democrats in this chamber have cut off all funding for 
the Department of Homeland Security. They have instituted another 
Democrat Shutdown, the first one costing us a 2-point reduction in the 
GDP. Now, they have closed the agency responsible for protecting 
Americans from terrorists and murderers. Tonight, I am demanding the 
full and immediate restoration of all funding for the Border Security 
and Homeland Security of the United States.
  One of the great things about the State of the Union is how it gives 
Americans the chance to see clearly what their representatives believe. 
So tonight, I am inviting every legislator to join with my 
administration in reaffirming a fundamental principle--if you agree 
with this statement, then stand up and show your support: The first 
duty of the American government is to protect American citizens, not 
illegal aliens.
  That is why I am also asking you to end deadly Sanctuary Cities that 
protect the criminals, and enact serious penalties for public officials 
who block the removal of criminal aliens, in many cases drug lords and 
murderers, from our country.
  And perhaps most importantly, I am asking you to approve the Save 
America Act to stop illegal aliens and other unpermitted persons from 
voting in our sacred American Elections. It is very simple: All voters 
must show Voter I.D. All voters must show proof of citizenship in order 
to vote. And no mail in ballots, except for illness, disability, 
military, or travel. This should be an easy one. The new Mayor of New 
York city just said they want people to shovel the snow--but if you 
apply for that job, you need to show two original forms of I.D., and a 
Social Security card--yet they don't want identification for the 
greatest privilege of them all, voting in America. Both Republicans and 
Democrats overwhelmingly agree--and Congress should unite and enact 
this common-sense, country-saving legislation, right now.
  And here is one more opportunity to show common sense in government. 
In the gallery tonight are Sage Blair and her mother Michelle. In 2021, 
Sage was 14 when school officials in Virginia sought to ``socially 
transition'' her to a new gender--treating her as a boy, and hiding it 
from her parents. Before long, a confused Sage ran away from home. 
After she was found in a horrific situation in Maryland, a left-wing 
judge refused to return Sage to her parents, because they did not 
immediately state that their daughter was their son. Sage was thrown 
into an all-boys state home and suffered terribly--but today, all of 
that is behind them, because Sage is a proud and wonderful young woman, 
with a full-ride scholarship to Liberty University. Sage and Michelle, 
thank you for your bravery. Who can believe we're even speaking about 
such things?
  Surely, we can all agree--no state can be allowed to rip children 
from their parents' arms and transition them to a new gender against 
the parents' will. We must ban it, and ban it now. These people are 
crazy!

[[Page S648]]

  No one cares more about protecting America's youth than our wonderful 
First Lady. Over the past year, she has had an incredible impact--
championing A.I. legislation, advancing a landmark Executive Order on 
foster care, and helping secure $30 million dollars to launch the 
Melania Trump Foster Youth to Independence initiative. And students and 
educators in every state have joined the First Lady's efforts in the 
Presidential A.I. Challenge, keeping America's next generation 
positioned to succeed in the future. Tonight, we welcome two young 
people whose lives reflect the First Lady's impact--Sierra Burns and 
Everest Nevraumont. Thank you both, and thank you, Melania.
  I am very proud to say that during my time in office, both the first 
four years and in particular this last year, there has been a 
tremendous renewal in religion, faith, Christianity, and belief in God 
in our country. This is especially true among young people--and a big 
part of that had to do with my great friend Charlie Kirk. Last year, 
Charlie was violently murdered by an assassin, and martyred for his 
beliefs. His wonderful wife, Erika, is with us tonight. Erika, please 
stand. In Charlie's memory, we must all come together to reaffirm that 
America is One Nation under God--and we must totally reject political 
violence of any kind. We love religion, and we love bringing it back.
  Above all, unleashing America's promise requires keeping our 
communities safe. We have made incredible strides--yet dangerous repeat 
offenders continue to be released by pro-crime politicians again and 
again.
  We are honored to be joined tonight by Anya Zarutska. In 2022, she 
and her beautiful daughter Iryna fled war-torn Ukraine to live with 
relatives near Charlotte, North Carolina. Last summer, 23-year-old 
Iryna was riding home on the train when a deranged monster--who had 
been arrested over a dozen times and was released through no cash 
bail--stood up and viciously slashed a knife through her neck and body. 
No one will ever forget the expression of terror on Iryna's face as she 
looked up at her attacker in the last seconds of her life. She had 
escaped a brutal war, only to be slain by a hardened criminal set free 
to kill in America. Mrs. Zarutska--tonight, I promise you, we will 
ensure justice for your magnificent daughter, Iryna.
  I am asking this Congress to pass tough legislation to ensure that 
violent and dangerous repeat offenders are put behind bars, and 
importantly, stay there.
  Starting last summer, I deployed our National Guard and federal law 
enforcement to restore law and order to our most dangerous cities--
including Memphis, Tennessee, New Orleans, Louisiana, and our nation's 
capital itself, Washington, D.C. Here in Washington, crime is now at 
the lowest levels ever recorded--and murders in D.C. this January were 
down close to 100% from one year ago.
  One of the brave servicemembers who helped achieve this stunning 
turnaround was 20-year-old West Virginia Army National Guard Specialist 
Sarah Beckstrom. After a four-month deployment, she voluntarily 
extended her service. The very next day, she was on patrol near the 
White House when she was ambushed and shot in the head by a terrorist 
monster from Afghanistan, who should have never been in the country--
all because she wore the uniform of her nation. Sarah Beckstrom died in 
order to defend our capital--and we are honored to be joined by her 
parents. Gary and Evalea, your daughter was a true American Patriot, 
and she will be greatly missed.
  Serving alongside Sarah that day was Staff Sergeant Andrew Wolfe. The 
terrorist shot Andrew in the head--and no one thought he could possibly 
make it, except for his wonderful and very loving mother, Melody. I 
spoke to Melody that night, and the doctors thought that Andrew was 
gone. But his mother said ``No, Mr. President, Andrew will be fine, 
He's going to make it; I have no doubt. Everybody is praying.'' The 
doctors did not understand what she was saying, and after looking at 
the results of the damage done, neither did I. She was so strong and 
conclusive that even Andrew's father felt she didn't understand the 
gravity of the situation, but she turned out to be right. With God's 
help, Andrew has battled back from the edge of death, and he is here 
tonight with his mom, on his way to a miraculous recovery. Now, I would 
like to ask General James Seward to present Staff Sergeant Andrew Wolfe 
and the great family of Sarah Beckstrom with the award created by our 
late, great President George Washington himself--the Purple Heart.
  We are proudly restoring safety for Americans at home, and we are 
also restoring security for America abroad. Our country has never been 
stronger.
  In my first 10 months, I ended 8 wars--including Cambodia and 
Thailand, Pakistan and India, Kosovo and Serbia, Israel and Iran, Egypt 
and Ethiopia, Armenia and Azerbaijan, the Congo and Rwanda, and of 
course, the War in Gaza. Under the ceasefire I negotiated, every single 
hostage--both living and dead--has been returned home. And we are 
working hard to end the 9th war--the killing and slaughter between 
Russia and Ukraine, where 25,000 soldiers are dying each and every 
month, a war which would have never happened if I were President.
  As President, I will make peace wherever I can--but I will never 
hesitate to confront threats to America wherever we must.
  That is why, in a breathtaking operation last June, the United States 
military obliterated Iran's nuclear weapons program with an attack on 
Iranian soil known as Operation Midnight Hammer. For decades, it has 
been the policy of the United States never to allow Iran to obtain a 
nuclear weapon. Since they seized control of that proud nation 47 years 
ago, the regime, and its murderous proxies, have spread nothing but 
terrorism and death. They have killed and maimed thousands of American 
servicemembers with roadside bombs. And just recently, they have killed 
at least 20,000 protestors in their own country. They have already 
developed missiles that can threaten Europe and our bases overseas--and 
they are working to build missiles that will soon reach the United 
States. After Midnight Hammer, they were warned to make no future 
attempts to rebuild their weapons program--yet they continue, and are 
at this moment again pursuing their sinister nuclear ambitions. My 
preference is to solve this problem through diplomacy--but one thing is 
certain: I will never allow the world's number one sponsor of terror to 
have a nuclear weapon.
  No nation should ever doubt America's resolve. We have the most 
powerful military on earth. I rebuilt our military in my first term, 
and continue to do so at an even more rapid pace--hopefully, we will 
seldom have to use it. It's called peace through strength.
  Thanks to a Republican Congress, we are investing a record $1 
trillion dollars in the United States Armed Forces this year alone. And 
NATO countries, our friends and allies, have just agreed to pay 5% of 
GDP for military defense, up from 2%, something which everyone said 
would never be done.
  Every branch of our Armed Forces is setting records for recruitment. 
And every service member recently received a Warrior Dividend of $1,776 
dollars.
  We are also restoring American security and dominance in the Western 
Hemisphere--acting to secure our national interests and defend our 
country from violence, drugs, terrorism, and foreign interference.
  For years, large swaths of territory in our region, including large 
parts of Mexico, have been controlled by murderous drug cartels. That 
is why I designated these Cartels as Foreign Terrorist Organizations, 
and I declared illicit fentanyl a Weapon of Mass Destruction. With our 
new military campaign, we have stopped record amounts of drugs coming 
into our country--and virtually stopped it completely coming in by 
water and sea.
  We have also taken down one of the most sinister cartel kingpins of 
all. In January, elite American Warriors carried out one of the most 
complex, spectacular feats of military competence and power in world 
history. America's Armed Forces overwhelmed all defenses and utterly 
defeated the enemy, to end the reign of outlaw dictator Nicolas Maduro, 
and bring him to face American Justice.
  This was a colossal victory for the security of the United States, 
and it also opens up a bright new beginning for the people of 
Venezuela. We are working closely with the new president, Delcy 
Rodriguez, to unleash extraordinary

[[Page S649]]

economic gains for both of our countries--and to bring new hope to 
those who have suffered so terribly. With us tonight is Alejandra 
Gonzalez. She grew up in a tightknit Venezuelan family, and was 
especially close to her beloved uncle Enrique. But after Enrique ran 
for office and opposed Maduro, her uncle was kidnapped by Maduro's 
security forces--and thrown into the regime's infamous prison in 
Caracas. Alejandra feared she would never see her uncle again. But 
since the raid, we have worked with the new leadership, and they have 
ordered the closure of that vile prison, and released hundreds of 
political prisoners with the rest to soon come. Alejandra, I am pleased 
to inform you that not only has your uncle been released, but he is 
here tonight to celebrate his freedom with you in person. Enrique, 
please come down. Thank you, Enrique.
  There were many heroes on that January raid to capture Maduro--but 
the deeds of one warrior that night will live forever in the eternal 
chronicles of Military Valor. Chief Warrant Officer 5 Eric Slover 
planned the mission and was the ``flightlead'' in the cockpit of the 
first helicopter in the raid, a massive Chinook carrying many American 
Warfighters. Wearing the dog tags his wife Amy had blessed with holy 
water before he left, Eric steered the Chinook under the cover of 
night, and descended swiftly upon Maduro's heavily protected military 
fortress, protected by thousands of soldiers, guarded by Russian and 
Chinese military technology. While preparing to land, enemy machine-
guns fired from every angle, and Eric was hit, very badly, in the leg 
and hip, one bullet after another. He absorbed four agonizing shots, 
shredding his leg to pieces. And yet, despite the fact that the use of 
his legs was vital to successful helicopter flight, he kept that 
helicopter flying, to deliver the many commandos who would capture and 
detain Maduro. Then, even as he was gushing blood, he maneuvered his 
helicopter to face the enemy and let his gunners eliminate the threat, 
saving the lives of his fellow warriors from what could have been a 
catastrophic crash deep in enemy territory. Only after safely landing 
the helicopter with all warriors aboard, in the exact right spot which 
was vital to the mission, Eric told his copilot, also wounded, but not 
as gravely, to take over--he was passing out.
  The success of the entire mission--and the lives of his fellow 
warriors--hinged on Eric's ability to take the searing pain of the 
bullets and keep on flying. Chief Warrant Officer Slover is still 
recovering from his serious wounds, but I am thrilled to say that he is 
here tonight with his wife Amy. Eric and Amy, come on in. In 
recognition of Eric's actions above and beyond the call of duty, I 
would now like to ask General Jonathan Braga to present Chief Warrant 
Officer Slover with our nation's highest military award--the 
Congressional Medal of Honor.
  Thank you, Eric and Amy. And 10 of Eric's fellow warriors from that 
night will also be receiving medals at a private ceremony at the White 
House.
  Tonight, we have celebrated many truly extraordinary American 
patriots, but there is one last living legend to honor before we go. He 
is one more heroic American Aviator. Navy Fighter Pilot Royce Williams 
served in World War Two, Korea, and Vietnam, flying more than 220 
missions. In the skies over Korea in 1952, Royce was in the dogfight of 
a lifetime. Flying through blizzard conditions, his squadron was 
ambushed by 7 Soviet fighter planes. It was his first aerial combat of 
the war, and despite being massively outnumbered and outgunned, Royce 
led the take-down of four enemy jets, vanquishing his adversaries while 
taking 263 bullets to his own plane. His story was secret for over 50 
years--he didn't even tell his wife. But tonight, at 100 years old, 
this brave Navy Captain is finally getting the recognition he deserves. 
He was a legend long before this evening. Royce, please stand up. I now 
ask the First Lady of the United States to present Captain Royce 
Williams with his Congressional Medal of Honor.
  250 years is a long time in the life of a nation, but in another 
sense, it is a mere moment in the eye of history. Two of the gentlemen 
we met in the gallery this evening took their first breaths one century 
ago. One hundred years before that, on July 4th, 1826, the author of 
the Declaration of Independence, Thomas Jefferson, drew his last 
breath. Just a single long human lifespan separates the giants who 
declared and won our Independence, from the heroes who stand among us 
tonight.
  Everything our nation has done, everything we have achieved, has been 
the work of those few great lifetimes. In those brief chapters, 
Americans built this nation from 13 humble colonies, into the pinnacle 
of human civilization and human freedom--the strongest, wealthiest, 
most powerful, most successful nation in all of history.
  Americans ventured out across a daunting and dangerous continent, we 
carved paths through an unforgiving wilderness, settled a boundless 
frontier, and tamed the beautiful but very dangerous wild west. From 
empty marshes and wide-open plains, we raised up the world's greatest 
cities. Together, we mastered the world's mightiest industries, we 
shattered history's monstrous tyrannies, and we liberated millions from 
the chains of fascism, communism, oppression, and terror. Americans 
lifted humanity into the skies on wings of aluminum and steel--and then 
we launched mankind into the stars on rockets powered by sheer American 
will and unyielding American pride. We wired the globe with our 
ingenuity, we captivated the planet with American culture, and now, we 
are pioneering the next great American breakthroughs that will change 
the entire world.
  All of this, and so much more, is the enduring legacy and unmatched 
glory of the hardworking patriots who built and defended this country, 
and who still carry the hopes and freedoms of all humanity on their 
backs.
  For years, they were forgotten, betrayed, and cast aside--but that 
great betrayal is over, and they will never be forgotten again.
  Because when the world needs courage, daring, vision, and 
inspiration, it still turns to America--and when God needs a nation to 
work His miracles, He knows exactly who to ask. There is no challenge 
Americans cannot overcome, no frontier too vast for us to conquer, no 
dream too bold for us to chase, no horizon too distant for us to claim.
  For our Destiny is written by the hand of Providence--and these first 
250 years were just the beginning.
  From the rugged border towns of Texas to the heartland villages of 
Michigan, from the sun-kissed shores of Florida to the endless fields 
of the Dakotas, and from the historic streets of Philadelphia, to right 
here in our nation's capital, Washington, D.C.--the Golden Age of 
America is now Upon Us. The Revolution that began in 1776 has not 
ended--it still continues, because the flame of Liberty and 
Independence still burns in the hearts of every American Patriot. And 
our future will be bigger, better, brighter, bolder, and more glorious 
than ever before.
  Thank you, God Bless You, and God Bless the United States of America.
                                                     Donald J. Trump.  
The White House, February 24, 2026.
