Transcript: Elon Musk & Laurence Fink (Davos 2026)
Larry Fink: Since we went public, BlackRock’s compounding return to shareholders was 21%. Since Elon took Tesla public, his compounded return is 43%. A spectacular return... I want to talk about AI and robotics, energy, space, and the progress ultimately coming down to engineering discipline and execution.
+1

On Consciousness and Space
Elon Musk: We need to assume that life and consciousness is extremely rare. It might only be us. If that’s the case, we do everything possible to ensure the light of consciousness is not extinguished. The image in my mind is of a tiny candle in a vast darkness. That’s why it’s important to make life multiplanetary. If there is a natural or man-made disaster on Earth, consciousness continues.
+2

The Robotics Revolution
Elon Musk: Humanoid robotics will advance quickly. If you have billions of humanoid robots—and I think everyone on Earth is going to have one—who wouldn't want one to watch over your kids or take care of your pets? Especially for elderly parents; there aren't enough young people to take care of the old. A robot that could protect and assist them would be amazing.
+1

Larry Fink: Can that expansion be broad? Or is it narrow? How can it be broadened in the global economy?

Elon Musk: The robots will actually make so many robots and AI that they will saturate all human needs. You won’t even be able to think of something to ask the robot for at a certain point. We’re headed for a future of amazing abundance.

On Aging and Longevity
Larry Fink: Can we reverse aging in this new history?

Elon Musk: I haven’t put much time into the aging stuff, but I do think it’s a very solvable problem. When we figure out what causes it, I think we’ll find it’s incredibly obvious. All cells in your body age at the same rate—you never see someone with an old left arm and a young right arm. However, there is a benefit to death; without it, society might ossify and lose its vibrancy. But do I think we’ll find ways to reverse it? Highly likely.
+1

The Energy Bottleneck
Larry Fink: What are the bottlenecks to get to this future?

Elon Musk: The limiting factor for AI deployment is fundamentally electrical power. We are seeing AI chip production increase exponentially, but the rate of electricity being brought online is only growing at maybe 5% a year. Very soon—maybe later this year—we will be producing more chips than we can turn on.
+1

Larry Fink: Except for China.

Elon Musk: Yes, China’s growth in electricity is tremendous. They are building 100 gigawatts of nuclear as we speak. But the US could be powered by solar using a very small percentage of our land. It’s really all about the sun.
+1

Closing Remarks
Elon Musk: I’ve been deeply inspired by science fiction. I encourage people to be optimistic. It’s better for your quality of life to be an optimist and wrong than a pessimist and right.